today i'm going to explain a crime film
called no country for old men
spoilers ahead
watch out and take care
the film begins with the sheriff
reflecting on the generations of sheriff
that came before him and how differently
the kind of crimes and cases he was
handling now here he begins to talk of
one such particular case a man in a
black jacket is in cuffs while being
lead to a police car by a young police
officer the only equipment he has with
him is a small hand carried tank of
pressurized air attached to a hose and a
nozzle
the two of them drive to the nearby
police station
at the station the young officer is
talking with his superior over the phone
about the man he had arrested as soon as
he hung up the phone the man in black
used his metal cuffs to strangle the
police officer to death
he cleans up in the bathroom and leaves
the man in black steals a police vehicle
and heads to the road he stops a random
civilian out on his car in the desert
and asks him to step out of the car
the civilian thinking he is a police
officer follows his instruction
the man in black then uses the nozzle of
his small air tank to shoot a blast of
pressurized air into the man's head
effectively murdering him
elsewhere a man and a cowboy had his
hunting deer in the desert he makes a
shot but it only grazes the animal he
goes down the hill to track his prey but
instead he sees a black dog in the
distance
he follows the dog to find what seemed
to be a drug deal gone wrong between
some mexicans there were several cars
and a slew of dead bodies covered in
bullet holes he opens one of the cars
and sees a dying man asking for water he
takes the man's gun and inquires about
the surviving man of the shootout the
man in the hat sets out to look for the
survivor and finds him sitting at a tree
the man moves closer to find that the
man by the tree is already dead and
beside him was a black briefcase
containing a large sum of money the man
takes the briefcase and the man's pistol
and sets out to go home
at his house he is greeted by his wife
carla jean who is inquiring about where
he got the briefcase and the pistol the
man in the hat is called the well in
that night llewellyn found difficulty
trying to sleep thinking about the dying
man he left in the car asking for water
so he sets out in the middle of the
night much to the concern of his wife
back at the area of the shootout lewin
brings a gallon of water to the car
but as he open the car door he sees that
the man is already dead
over the distance he spots two men by
his car
they flatten its tires and head in the
welland's direction
llewellyn runs and the men shoot at him
lolan runs on foot and the two men give
chase in their truck he gets shot in the
shoulder and he barely escapes through
the river he looks behind him to find
the men's attack dog following him the
moment he gets on land he [ __ ] his gun
and shoots the dog meanwhile the man in
black visits a convenience store run by
an old man
the man in black antagonizes the old man
with his strange and unsettling demeanor
finally the man in black asked the old
man what's the most he's ever lost in a
coin toss the man in black tosses a coin
and asks the old man to call it after
some back and forth the old man does
what he is told and successfully guesses
heads the man in black leaves the old
man with a coin emphasizing to him how
valuable that coin is the old man is
shocked by the encounter not knowing how
close he was to being killed
back at the shootout area the man in
black arrives with two men in suits
implied to be the ones who own the
briefcase they continue to inspect the
place and investigate where llewellyn
might be one of the men gives the man in
black a tracking device that is
connected to the briefcase containing
the two million after receiving the
tracking device the man in black shoots
the two men dead
the following morning the sheriff
arrives near the scene of the shootout
he finds a car up in flames he's joined
by his fellow officer wendell
the sheriff successfully deduces that
the car was indeed the one that was
stolen by the man in black and is now up
in the wind with some other car that he
swapped after surveying the area the two
officers find llewellyn's truck the
sheriff recognizes it and knows that it
belongs to llewellyn
finally they arrive at the scene of the
shootout the two officers investigate
the scene
they take it to be a drug deal gone
wrong but they also notice the two men
in suits and speculates that there may
have been more than one violent
encounter that went down
the man in black arrives at llewellyn's
house he knocks on the door and after
hearing no answer he aims his nozzle
directly at the door's lock and shoots a
blast of pressurized air to knock the
door lock into the room
it struck the wall leaving the mark when
he gets inside he finds the house
abandoned he goes up to the fridge and
takes a glass of milk and sits down for
a moment
the sheriff officer wendell dropped by
at llewellyn's house shortly after the
man in black left
they inspect the area and notice the
dent left on the wall from the door lock
that was shot out the sheriff notices
that the glass of milk that the man in
black left on the table is still cold
officer wendell is aggravated realizing
that they just missed him llewellyn
finds his way to a motel he scans the
room in search of a place to hide the
money he sees a ventilator shaft ties a
string on the briefcase and pushes it
within the vents
wendell and the sheriff receive a lab
report on the dead bodies both of them
are unsettled and boggled by the fact
that one of the bodies had an entry
wound on the forehead with no exit wound
or a bullet the next day llewellyn makes
preparations for his pursuers
he rents an additional room back at the
motel he stayed in room 139 and rented
room 137
he strategically left room 138 vacant
later the man in black picks up a signal
on his tracker and finds his way to
lewellen's motel he surveys the area
while watching the beeping light on his
tracker he stops his car directly in
front of llewellyn's room he goes to the
counter and looks at the motel map and
proceeds to search the rooms one by one
the man in black rents a room in the
motel he removes his shoes and takes out
his hand-carried tank of pressurized air
and walks towards room 138. while a
welland was trying to fish the briefcase
in the vent with a tentpole the man in
black waits outside he shoots off the
door lock with the air tank and barges
in with a rifle he finds a different man
in room 138 and shoots him dead
another man appears from the bathroom
and takes a shot at the man in black but
he outshoots him one more man was hiding
behind the shower curtain he begs the
man in black for his life but still he
murders him lewellen who was in the room
adjacent to him hears the commotion in
the other room the man in black sits at
the end of the bed and removes his socks
he searches the room for the briefcase
and fixes his eyes on the ventilator
shaft he unscrews the vent lid using a
coin and finds only skid marks left by
the briefcase llewellyn escaped and
caught a ride by hitchhiking in a large
office a man in a cowboy hat named
mr.wells enters the room his boss asks
if he knows anton [ __ ] by sight the
two men discuss anton [ __ ] the man in
black the person they originally hired
to track down their lost money and has
now betrayed them and acting out of his
own volition
mr.wells has been assigned to track down
both the money and anton lloyd arrives
at another motel called eagle pass
he checks in and asks the man on the
counter to call him if any suspicious
men check in
in the middle of the night llewellyn
realizes that the briefcase might be
bugged
he finds the tracking device but before
he's able to discard it he heard a
suspicious noise outside his door
he moves quietly takes his shotgun and
poises it against the door he shuts off
his lamp and waits he sees a man's
shadow slip beneath the door frame anton
[ __ ] now stands outside his door
anton blasts off the door lock and it
hits llewellyn in the chest llewellyn
fires off his shotgun at anton and jumps
out the window
anton fires off another shot but misses
louellan circles back at the motel
entrance and make his way to the back
alley anton eisemann fires off another
shot from the window and it hits
llewellyn on his side llewellyn runs and
hides behind a corner the street is
empty a truck passes by and llewellyn
stops the driver he gets in the car but
before he's able to take off anton
shoots the driver llewellyn hits the gas
and anton continues to pelt the car with
bullets the car crashes and llewellyn
gets off and takes cover behind another
car he watches anton's reflection from
the nearby diner's glass windows anton
gets closer to inspect the car he
follows the trail of blood with his eyes
in a split second he realizes
llewellyn's direction and was able to
dodge a blow from his shotgun at the
right time lewellen unloads the shotgun
at the car anton hid behind
upon inspecting behind the car anton was
gone and had escaped
llewellyn bruised and bloody goes on
foot to cross the border to mexico
while walking on a sidewalk on the
bridge llewellyn happens upon a group of
young men luellen offers 500 for a coat
from one of the men
desperate and afraid he throws the
briefcase from the side of the bridge
after successfully crossing the border
llewellyn faints and wakes up on a stone
staircase at a park in mexico he is met
by a band playing a mary song
llewellyn hands them money asking for
medical care
meanwhile anton [ __ ] tends to his own
wounds he blows up a car near a pharmacy
by lighting a piece of cloth in the gas
tank the explosion is enough to distract
civilians and the shopkeepers from
noticing anton steel medical materials
he goes into a hotel and picks off the
shrapa lodged in his left thigh at the
police station the sheriff plan on
seeing carla jean and odessa to check on
her and to see if she knows anything
while this was happening llewellyn wakes
up in a hospital bed with mr.well
sitting in front of him they discuss the
money and anton [ __ ] wells asked him
to hand the money otherwise he wouldn't
help with chigerk when llewellyn denies
that he has the money with him wells
points out that chiggard might be after
his wife carla jean
carson wells offers his assistance in
exchange for the money one last time
before leaving llewellyn in odessa the
sheriff meets with carla jean
when asked about llewellyn carla jean
tells the sheriff she doesn't know where
he is
the sheriff wants to offer llewellyn
protection from the people who are after
him before he goes the sheriff goes on
and tells carla gene about a specific
type of air gun used to slaughter
animals
suddenly feeling uncomfortable carla
jean asks why the sheriff would tell her
such things to which the sheriff
responds i don't know
my mind wanders perhaps thinking of
anton [ __ ] back in mexico carson
wells retraces llewellyn's steps and was
able to locate the briefcase from the
side of the bridge he returns to his
hotel room only to find anton chigru
waiting for him wells tries to negotiate
out of the situation anton urges him to
accept his death knowing it's inevitable
anton asks wells if the rule you
followed brought you to this of what use
was the rule before they're able to
continue their conversation the phone
rings and anton shoots carson anton
picks up the phone and speaks with
llewellyn he gives llewellyn an
ultimatum to give up the money in an
exchange anton will not hunt down and
kill his wife
llewellyn rejects the deal and threatens
anton instead loyolan crosses back to
america retrieves the money and buys a
change of clothes loyolan gives carla
gene a call to let her know about the
threat he arranged for her to leave the
country so she could be safe until he
deals with [ __ ]
anton sugar realized that the man who
originally owned the 2 million briefcase
placed two tracking devices in the
briefcase and gave the other to the
mexicans
enraged anton storms into his office and
kills him
now both anton and the mexicans are
after llewellyn autobus terminal to el
paso carla jean gives a call to the
sheriff and offers him llewellyn's
location to help him
while anton makes an attempt to track
down her location llewellyn while
walking in el paso happens by a young
woman by an apartment building lounging
under the sun
the woman offers lowell in a beer after
turning down her offer she insists
further
shortly after we see the sheriff rushing
into llewellyn's location
he sees a handful of civilians running
away from the apartment building the
sheriff's spots the woman llewellyn was
speaking to from earlier dead in the
pool he rushes inside the apartment and
finds llewellyn already dead killed by
the mexicans later in the night carla
jean arrives at the scene
the sheriff only shares a look with her
as she realizes that her husband is gone
at a diner in el paso the sheriff and
the local police chief in el paso share
a conversation and reflect on the
increasingly violent and ruthless crimes
being done
the police chief notes that anton
returned to one of his crime scenes this
remark gave the sheriff an idea to
return and inspect the place where
llewellyn was killed he is surprised to
find that the door lock was punched
through anton [ __ ] stood in silence
behind the door listening for the
sheriff
the sheriff inspects the room looking
for chiggard but he finds nothing except
an open ventilation lid and a quarter
the sheriff visits an old friend of his
named ellis they discuss the sheriff's
plans to quit the job and is increasing
distress regarding the case with
llewellyn and sugar ellis in response
recounts a story of another police offer
that was gunned down in his own house in
front of his wife
ellis tells the sheriff what he's
dealing with isn't anything new that bad
people have always existed in the world
and he has to accept it when carla jean
came home from her mother's burial she
found anton [ __ ] waiting for her in
her room when she saw him she tells him
she knew it wasn't over
carla jean tells anton that she has no
reason at all to harm her anton replies
that she's right but he intends to
follow through since llewellyn refused
to make a deal to keep her safe
carla jean tells him she knew she was
going to die the moment she saw him in
the room because she knew he was crazy
anton then flips a coin because in his
twisted point of view it's the only
compromise he can make by putting her
fate to chance while at the same time
not going back on his word
outraged carla jean refuses to guess and
argues that anton kills of his own
choice and the chance does not play into
it the next scene shows anton leaving
carla jean's house checking his shoes
for blood
while driving on his way out anton gets
hit by another car
two kids on a bike approach anton and he
pays for the kid's shirt to use as a
sling and walks away the sheriff now
retired shares breakfast with his wife
and tells her of some dreams he had the
night before
the first was about him and his father
but since his father died at a young age
it's as if he's much older than him in
the dream
the dream was about meeting him in town
someplace where he gave him money and he
lost it in the second dream he and his
father were back in older times
they were on horseback and going through
a pass in the mountains
it was cold and snowing his father rode
past him and kept going without saying a
word when he rode past he saw his father
carrying fire and a horn
he mentions he knew in the dream that
his father was going on ahead to make a
fire somewhere and he knew his father
would be there when he catches up to
where his father's going
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching